for the last few years I've been hearing
this Theory all the time that large
language models and AI tools are
basically taking search market share
away from Google people are using
perplexity and Gemini and chat GPT
Claude to do things that they used to do
in Google and if if my LinkedIn feed
were any example my God it must be like
they're taking 90% of the share so I
figured hey let's try to do this right
what if we could find all the numbers we
needed to either prove or disprove this
Theory and finally thanks to some new
research from doos and some things that
sem Rush did uh last year and this year
and some numbers that Google released I
think we can so chat GPT announced their
their CEO Sam Sam Alman announced at the
dealbook conference that users were
entering 1 billion messages per day now
a message is not the same as a prompt
conversation but we can still we can
still start to do things and Google
remember announced 5 trillion search
per year last year in
2024 so sem Rush put together this nice
uh analysis of chat GPT prompts they
analyzed 80 million different prompts
from from clickstream records uh and
they were able to categorize what
percent had overlap with traditional
search engine usage so informational
navigational commercial transactional
that number is a clean 30% 70% are
things like you know write code for me
make my D and D character for me analyze
this spreadsheet for me all right so we
know that 30% of chat gbt's prompts or
or conversations roughly are search
equivalents and thanks to data that they
collected last year we know that the
average number of messages per prompt
interaction is eight and this lets us do
a breakdown we can say a billion
messages per day which is Sam alman's
number divided by an average of eight
messages per prompt divided by 30% of
prompts that have search like intent
that gives us
375 million searches a day which is
absolutely incredible that's a huge
number of
searches until you look at Google which
is four uh five trillion searches per
year that's 14 billion searches per day
on average is it's about 126 searches
per person uh per device so 14 billion
versus 37.5 million and I've actually
gone through the trouble of also getting
based on the market share data reported
by uh stack count sorry yes by um stat
counter I'm able to see market share of
Yahoo Bing and Duck ducko and so I've
graphed those as well it really gives
you a sense of what's going on and these
numbers fit nicely uh duck ducko a few
years ago announced they had crossed a
100 million searches so 100 million per
day so 108 million it's it seems pretty
plausible pretty
close this means that last year Google
search was
373 times as large as Chachi BT and
that's the end of the year that's
December Chachi BT is obviously growing
in in three or four years this number
could be four five six times its size
they could be the size of
Yahoo but that's still it's just not
that big compared to Google and I think
you know if you if you were to take just
these different platforms not including
like nebor and Buu and Yandex and those
kinds of folks and you were to graph
well what does that look like that that
teeny tiny 0.25% sliver is chat gbt so I
mean look if if chat GPT were taking
market share away from Google one thing
we know would be true Google would not
be growing right they would they would
be be shrinking so if they're taking
that quarter percentage point then we
should see like a little bit fewer
searches per year but Google actually
had a record-breaking year of growth
since Co at least
21.6% growth this is uh new data from
Doos showing the percentage increase
from 2023 to 2024 and the number of
searches increase you know back in 2023
the average Searcher searched 103 times
now it is 125 times when Sundar P during
the earnings call said Google CEO said
we are seeing that with the release of
AI overviews Searchers are coming back
and searching Google more and more
frequently
the the numbers bear him out this
appears to be absolutely true and
accurate and not just in google.com
default but you know in maps and
images Etc so look if chat GPT is taking
Mark market share from Google it is a
very very tiny amount and it's clearly
not hurting their growth they they grew
by multiple chat gpts uh in terms of
search Volume last year alone I think I
think we can put this one to bed so far
llms are not putting a dent in Google's
growth